# Interview Story Points
As we all know, during interviews you will be asked a series of questions. You always want to answer these questions thoroughly. Answering thoroughly lets the interviewer know that you are a great fit for the position, and you've done what you have listed on your resume. How do you answer a technical question thoroughly? By answering with **what** the answer is, **tools** that can help you solve the answer, **how** you may use the tool to answer the question, and **why** that tool for that answer. This is the most effective way to answer a question.  

Below we are going to use Amazon's Leadership Principle's. Amazon uses these during their interview processes to screen candidates. Feel free to learn more [here] (https://www.amazon.jobs/en/principles).

## Customer Obsession
### Give me an example of a time when you did not meet a client’s expectation. What happened, and how did you attempt to rectify the situation?

    When I was working at *[employer's name]* we had a customer that wanted us to collect logs from one of their SCADA devices and monitor its events for suspicious/malicious activity.
    The issue was that there was no way for my team to install and configure a Splunk agent on those devices. SCADA devices aren't your typical computing devices, and you can't interact with most of them how we would with a typical server or networking device. This meant we couldn't use the traditional methods to forward logs to our Splunk Server. This obviously frustrated the customers as they didn't know any other work arounds, and members on my team weren't equipped to implement other solutions. I took it upon myself to satisfy the customer’s overall goal. Their goal was to forward logs from this embedded system to Splunk for monitoring. So instead of configuring a Splunk agent on the device (which we couldn't) I worked with one of their engineers to create a script
    that would format and forward their logs to a syslog server. From there, we could capture and forward their logs to Splunk. As a result, this solution satisfied the customers’ requests and future requests that had the same issues. 

## Ownership
### Tell me about a time when you had to work on a project with unclear responsibilities.

    When I was a Vulnerability Manager at *[employer's name]*, I was given a project to identify end of life systems. End of life systems are systems that are no longer being supported by their vendors. We had tons of systems that reached their end-of-life. Now, when I sat down to draw up a workflow to accomplish and track the progress for the project, I realized that some responsibilities weren't clear. For example, if when we find these systems who would be responsible for
    identifying and implementing risk actions? Which teams would need to be informed or consulted? Because I had so many questions stemming from unclear responsibilities, I created a RACI chart for this project. A RACI chart is a document that organizes responsibilities per tasks.
    I created a RACI chart, then organized a meeting amongst team leads so we can agree on who would be responsible, accountable, consulted, and informed. The RACI chart outlined clear responsibilities and which teams owned them.

## Invent and Simplify
### Tell me about a time when you gave a simple solution to a complex problem.

    At *[employer's name]* one of our Splunk engineers had a continuous task to create new Splunk dashboards for new data sources each customer was ingesting. Why was this problem complex? Because the number of customers were growing, the number of data sources were growing, and the number of engineers stayed the same. In other words, the engineer was overwhelmed with this task and had issues prioritizing other tasks needing his attention. When the engineer brough this to me, I immediately had a simple solution working in my mind and that was to automate his process with a few ansible playbooks. The engineers didn't have any scripting skills or know any automation tools well enough to automate the process. So, I took some time out of my days to create a few ansible playbooks he could use to deploy apps and restart respective client search heads. These playbooks were managed in git, so everyone had access to it if they needed them. As a result, this gave the engineers more time to focus on other tasks.

## Right a lot
### Tell me about a time when you were wrong.
    
    During my first few months as Vulnerability Manager at *[employer's name]* I wanted to install McAfee Endpoint protection products on a few medical devices we had. Why? They were critical devices, they had plenty of vulnerabilities that we were still working on remediating, and they weren't protected by endpoint security tools. I assembled our team in order to create a workflow to fix this problem. One of the junior members on the team announced it wouldn't be a good idea. I wasn't too sure why not.
    She later informed me that the endpoint protection tools would crash a critical application running on that medical device. Therefore, it wouldn't be able to operate. After looking into it further, I learned that she was right, and I was wrong. The medical applications on that device were not compatible with the endpoint security tools we used. The devices did need to be protected but not in the manner I thought of. Instead, we put the devices onto different networks that were 
    being closely monitored by our SOC and some security controls. This resulted in an increase in visibility to our defenseless systems. 

## Learn and be curious
### Tell me about a time when you influenced a change by only asking questions.

    At *[employer's name]* we were trying to decide on whether to implement agent vs agentless scans on our dmz application servers. We wanted to ensure we had visibility over vulnerabilities in the dmz but also wanted to do it in the most effective way possible while not creating attack vectors or introducing new vulnerabilities. Some members on the team didn't like the idea of adding another agent on those servers. Others supported the idea. I was curious why some were for it and the others weren't. My curiosity created a series of questions. I questioned both sides on why they were for it or against it. Some didn't like the idea of agents because they believed it would consume a lot of the server’s memory. Others liked the idea because it would prevent adding an additional hole in the firewall. I was curious as to why some thought it was resource expensive. So, I asked them was there a specific document that stated the agents would take up a lot of resources. We ended up searching for documents to see what they stated, and it was the opposite. It mentioned that the agents wouldn't take too much memory to run. As a result, those that were against the agents were now in support of agents in the dmz. Due to my curiosity resulting in a series of questions we were able to increase the visibility of dmz assets and their vulnerabilities.

## Hire and develop the best 
### Tell me about a time when you mentored someone

    I'm a strong believer in continuous learning and helping position others in junior roles for senior opportunities. The best way to do this is by taking them on as mentees. At *[employer's name]* I started a mentorship program. The program asked for leaders to randomly select 2-3 junior employees to teach a new skill/tool to once a month. This required seniors to devote a few hours a month to create a short class or simple walk through of a set of skills or tool for the mentee to learn. The mentee would then create a writeup of what they learned and how they implemented it at work or at home in their own environments. This mentorship program increased employee retention. It became a lot easier for management to fill open roles with junior employees within the company. 

## Insists on the highest standards 
### Tell me about a time when you couldn’t meet your own expectations on a project.
    
    There was a project at *[employer's name]* where I was tasked with creating a new managed Splunk cluster for a new customer we onboarded. This project meant I must create machines in aws (using terraform) and then provision them with the appropriate configurations (using ansible) per role in the cluster. I had about 3 weeks to get this completed. I typically create workflows for all my projects, and they usually allow me to have a finished product and test it a week before a deadline. I had 3 weeks to complete this. The workflow allowed me to complete the project in 2 weeks and use the last week for testing. Unfortunately, I couldn’t use the entire last week for testing because our network engineer was on pto. He was the only one at the time who had access to creating certificates and dns entries for our app servers. We had to wait for him to return from pto.
    Fortunately, I was still able to complete the project by its due date. But I learned a valuable lesson about cross-training. Because even though we didn't have enough members on that team, if cross-training was implemented, others would have been able to create the certs, dns entries, and have access to perform this task as well. 

## Think Big
### Tell me about a time when you went way beyond the scope of the project and delivered.

    At *[employer's name]* the CISCO wanted me to develop a solution that would help the organization prioritize its risk. There were a lot of vulnerabilities being presented by the vulnerability management team, and many outstanding risks that GRC wanted the verticals to work on remediating. 
    With all these risks and vulnerabilities needing attention, a solution was needed to prioritize which ones to work on first. I created a tool based on NIST and a few other frameworks to help prioritize our risks and vulnerabilities. Essentially it asked a series of questions, and the results were risk scores we used for prioritization. The questions asked if there were security controls mitigating the risk? Is the vulnerability/risk affecting a mission essential function? Depending on the answers to these questions, a risk score was calculated. Each risk could get a risk score between 1-10. In addition, I went above and beyond by creating workflows that incorporated
    all teams needed to mitigate the risks. Depending on the type of risks different teams would need to be consulted or informed. For instance, if it was a risk to our network, we would pull in the network team to get their assessment on the risk and if any actions needed to be taken. On the other hand, if 
    it was an endpoint/host risk, the appropriate system owners would be pulled in to discuss remediation steps. The entire process often included patch management teams especially when patches needed to be rolled out. Furthermore, I created multiple risk registers for the organization to continue tracking outstanding and residual risks. This allowed us to effectively mitigate 35% of organizational risks.

## Bias for action
### Describe a time when you saw some problem and took the initiative to correct it rather than waiting for someone else to do it
    
    As a Vulnerability Manager at *[employer's name]*, I noticed that they didn't have a centralized asset inventory tool to track their networking devices. Each time had their own applications
    that somehow stored assets respective to the tool's capabilities. For instance, the Vulnerability team could export assets using Nessus, the Endpoint Security team could export assets using McAfee. So, each team had their own list of assets within the organization. But none of them was a single source of truth for effective management. I brought the need of a centralized asset inventory to the CISO's attention; however, he wasn't interested in purchasing that at the time. With that being understood, I used what we had to create one. All the verticals had their own space on Windows Team they would use to store exported assets to. I created a template that would allow each team to organize their assets. This wasn't the most effective way to inventory your assets, but it was something that needed to be done for operations to be more effective. This allowed us to identify end of life systems a lot more efficiently when we were upgrading them. 

## Frugality
### Tell me about a time when you had to work with limited time or resources.
    
    At *[employer's name]*, my team needed a new base ami that no one knew how to create, and it was needed by the end of the week to create application servers. I was new to the team and still learning some of the tools they introduced me to. One of the tools we had access to was Packer. This wasn't a tool our team used; it was something our infrastructure team used to build ami's. However, the infrastructure team had other tasks that took priority over our requests. I decided to take on the challenge to learn how Packer worked to create an AMI. I had to read a bunch of documents, go through a few trials and errors, but I was able to understand the moving parts and how Packer was creating the AMIs. Before the end of the week, I created the base ami we needed, tested and validated it with an ec2 instance, and pushed it into production for use after validation was successful. As a result, I am moving forward we did not need to rely on the infrastructure team for a very important task we needed to fulfill customer satisfaction.  

## Earn Trust
### Tell me about a time when you had to tell someone a harsh truth.

    At *[employer's name]* the Threat Intel team was known for sending a high volume of threats/exploits that weren't applicable to our environment. In other words, they were sending a high volume of false positives. As a result, a lot of their reports were being overlooked. I scheduled a meeting with their team lead to discuss the credibility of the threats and the number of false positives. I kindly let him know that a high number of false positives are going to make it difficult for other teams to trust the reports yet alone read them. I didn't just tell him the harsh truth; I shared a solution.
    I suggested that they validate their reports before pushing them out. I suggested that they work with other teams to see if we are currently preventing those threats from exploiting out vulnerabilities. For example, do the Endpoint Security team tools have hashes to detect the threats, or does the Network Security team have security controls implemented to prevent the attacks. Understanding this before pushing out threat intel reports would result in a less false positive, and more actionable threat intel. This increased team collaboration between Threat Intel and other verticals and increased the number of actionable reports.

## Dive deep 
### Give me two examples of when you did more than what was required in any job experience.

At *[employer's name]*, we lost the lead to the Pentesting team. In addition, there was little to know structure for the team, and there was a lack of visibility as to what they were doing.
The CISO planned on retiring the team. However, I understand the importance of Pentesting skills and how much we need it to test our application services for potential exploits. I volunteered to migrate the Pentesting team under vulnerability management where I would take lead and prioritize their tasks and goals along with our own. This wasn't something that I had to do, it was more than what was required, and it was everything I wanted to do. Incorporating Pentesting with Vulnerability Management increased patch 
management efforts. Because after certain vulnerabilities were discovered, we utilized Pentesting to provide proof of concepts. Providing the proof of concepts gave us more leverage as a Vulnerability team when emphasizing how important it was to deploy patches to affected systems. 

At *[employer's name]* we have an infrastructure team that uses terraform to build instances for us. However, I wasn't too fond of the amount of time we would lose waiting for infrastructure to 
prioritize our requests with what they had going on. I took it upon myself to learn and understand terraform so we can leverage it to accomplish our goals without waiting
for the infrastructure team. It took some time, studying, and hands-on application to successfully learn this tool so we can use it as a team. It was more than required, however it was imperative to improving operations as a team. This increased our productivity and effectiveness when completing customer tasks. 

## Backbone, disagree and commit
### Tell me about a time when you had to step up and disagree with a team member's approach.
    
    At *[employer's name]* there was an initiative to shift from authenticating to a specific application server with passwords to passwordless authentication with keys. This was in the talks for a few weeks now. A few members didn't like the idea and wanted to stick with password authentication. They didn't like the amount of work that would come with passwordless authentication. It would require a bit of work to implement but based on my experience it offered a more secure solution to authenticate to that specific server. With that being said, I had to firmly disagree with the others. I expressed why. I informed them that it's much easier to compromise a set of passwords than it would be to compromise ssh keys. In addition, I made it known that having a centralized location to manage public keys would make the shift less difficult. This entire initiative would result in a more secure method to authenticate to that docker server and help reduce its attack surface.

## Deliver results
### What is the most challenging situation you have ever faced in your life? How did you handle it?
    
    The most challenging situation may be my time at *[employer's name]* when we were attacked by the WannaCry worm. It was challenging because it was my first real large scale cyber-attack that had a critical impact on critical applications such as systems used for cancer patients and other time sensitive operations. We were alerted that a few systems were encrypted, and nurses/doctors couldn't access them. Then more systems became compromised in other hospitals. So many things were 
    happening at once, people were panicking and looking around for answers. The CISO was also concerned.
    I quickly got stakeholders on a WebEx call, asked the network team if it was feasible to remove the systems from the network or isolate infected systems. We couldn't take them off the network without compromising certain patient operations. These systems were isolated onto their own subnet with limited access, no egress traffic allowed. While this was going on, we were also working with MacAfee to create a signature to implement into our tools to detect and remove the malware. Because I was able to remain calm, collective, reel in the right people to make changes, and use my expertise to help mitigate the impact, we were able to utilize the SOC to identify and monitor all infected systems, utilize our Endpoint Security Team to update our ENS tools to identify and remove the malware. As a result, we were fully operational within 48 hours. 

